RGB fans were pretty cool back in the
Middle Ages these days we have screens
on our fans or least your nand does
because now all the cool kids they have
the holographic fan look at this right
here this is a Holo fan from coolify and
it can display a Persistence of vision
image on your computer let's have a look
let's see what we have in the Box here
we have a little note with the specs
2600 RPM 52 CFM and 2.75 mm of H2O
apparently the thing will do 33 DB of
noise which is pretty darn good
especially given that it has no pwm
we'll talk about that in a little bit
also in here of course we have the fan
and a couple of fan screws yeah there we
go that's it some context for these
specs they're perfectly fine as for the
fan design itself it looks like you're a
pretty typical cheap RGB fan you find a
lot of these for like $34 on AliExpress
or wish but this one right here is a
little bit beefier looking and it has
this bar right down the center how this
works is the fan spins and then the
lights light up in here corresponding to
where it is around here in the rotation
and by using maths and Magic you're able
to get an image out of that somehow
let's see if we can just have it work
come on do it oh that is cool wow this
is a loud fan that's unfortunate I feel
like their 33 DB claim is a bit of a fib
so Bel just said apparently if you give
it less beans it will sound better that
is not a thing this right here has to
spin at 2600 RPM all the time there are
only two leads going to the motherboard
on this which means you have no control
over the speed whatso ever and there is
a good reason for that so see how we
have this image right here that is based
on the RPMs of the fan so if I start
slowing it down you can see that the
image just kind of starts to fall apart
now kifi does have a new version that's
going to come out that will apparently
go down to about 900 RPM which should be
way quieter than this but the whole
maths of being able to find out like how
fast it's going and turn that into a
image that makes any sense at all is
pretty difficult cuz again speed changes
whole thing falls
apart Bell says apparently it's way
quieter at 9 volts which you don't get
from a computer but I'm willing to try
it all right I got my sound level meter
because I think their specs are
horrifically wrong let's just unplug it
for a second just to make sure that it's
not super duper loud in here so this
system is roughly we can call it 43 DB
there about now now I can plug in this
fan and we'll see just how much louder
it gets we're looking at about 50 DB a
lot of the times I'll do it from a foot
which is about right here which is 53 DB
that's 20 DB more than they claim and 20
DB is a lot that's a shocking amount 3
DB is a doubling in power 20 is a lot
it's
logarithmic now Belle says that Reddit
says that at 9 Vols this fan will be a
lot quieter which makes a fair bit of
sense but at the same time I suspect
that's going to completely ruin our
little holographic display but I'm
willing to give it a try there we go
fans working off the bench power supply
voltage setting nine it's not quite
stable but I would say that it is good
enough would you say that's good enough
Belle I'd say that's
working okay so it does stabiliz I guess
it does have two
modes you can run it at 9 volts it
stabilizes
itself can I go
lower doesn't like eight not a fan of
eight is it stabilizing no all right 9
volts does seem better the noise is much
more acceptable one more thing we're
going to test low noise adapter if that
gets us 9 volts then we're not in a bad
spot okay when I got some low noise
adapters this is basically just a
resistor and in your little fan lead
we're going to attach that and with any
luck that will solve our ipping really
freaking loud problems the noise is too
low for it darn well we tried let's put
them in the system I turned off the
system but we still have lus on our CPU
Cooler very strange even stranger that
this is how I segue to our sponsor
thanks to vti for sponsoring this video
their Courtside Classics take a Timeless
'90s look and upgrade it with vess's
diatex technology which they say is even
in the most torrential downpours dry
sock
guaranteed it also has a soft and
flexible tongue plus removable insoles
so they fit your unique feet you can
snag your pair today at vy.com
shortcircuit or use the link in our
description to get 15% off your first
order at checkout this is a real pain in
the butt this case was very clearly
designed to have the fans on the other
side and it shows cuz this is
difficult there we go
all right prepare yourself for some
noise oh
oh hey get it why are
you oh dear oh man one of them came with
images on it look at that it's pretty
cool so the little POV thing sticks out
beyond the bounds of the fan and this
case is not quite made to be in that
location so uh we're going to make it be
fine this is where I have to say that
the LT screwdriver is not a prying tool
I'll try this at
home just turn off the computer oh I
have an idea I have an idea I have an
idea there's these little screws right
here I really hope that when I undo
these screws that just the plastic frame
on the outside comes off and not the
entire
thing
Perfect all right they're all working
that was easy and didn't require any
bending or destruction at all one thing
you'll notice here is that the
motherboard thinks that there are no
fans attached because it does not have a
pwm header or anything like that it's
just two wires so we'll have to tell it
to ignore that all right we are on the
shortcircuit phone cuz uh my phone I
didn't want to use because you need to
just sideload this app from a random
link on a website fantastic and also it
is named M3 3D float
view sure so these fans you connect to
Via wifi to control
them so here we go Hollow this one they
do apparently have a Windows app coming
that would be nice as you can see the
one in the back that came preconfigured
with some cool stuff is doing cool stuff
it' be nice if we could also do cool
stuff on these what are all these
devices I closed the app and opened it
back up and I have all of this random
stuff
none of which I added I was hoping that
switching over to iPhone would just
magically make things work but it's
not okay I was able to connect to the
back fan which is different than these
ones and I do have control so if you
look here I have got a video playing and
I can hit a thing and a different video
starts playing it's actually quite
responsive how quickly it changes
between the stuff so that's cool it
would be way cooler if I could change
any of the ones in the
front well I don't really know what to
say I've been spending the last 20
minutes trying to get these to work I
think I have connected to two of the
fans but when I tried to send a new
video clip to them it's just stuck at
0% uh I don't really know what to say
other than this clearly should have been
left in the oven quite a bit longer I do
know that they're working on a version
that has the 900 rpm lower limit and pwm
control which would allow this to be not
super freaking loud uh also the
app doesn't seem to work if there was a
Windows app that would be pretty
cool or any other kind of control like
USB control would be nice some sort of a
controller that would be pretty cool uh
not using Wi-Fi would be pretty great
it's disappointing coolify I was hoping
for a bit better oh yeah and they're on
sale right now for 4
uh I would wait for Gen 2 if this is the
sort of thing that you want unless
you're a real sucker for punishment and
you really really
really want this right now but what I
want right now is for you to hit like
get subscribed and just have a great old
day see you later